# Diagnostics WG Meeting

* Date: 2016-12-02 (Collaborators' Summit - Austin)
* GitHub issue: https://github.com/nodejs/summit/issues/30
* Raw notes: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hUiG1nv4hxjnznN2NjU3F-MzXtKhWxvMI3R8caJyzCs>

## Agenda:

* TracingController
* Inspector and Protocol
* async_hooks

---

## TracingController

Agenda: 

* Intended use cases
* JS API
* Trace points in Core


### Intended use cases

For use with timing; intended first for statistical and event-based profiling.

If people would use for broader event logging there could be perf implications.

Could it be used as an alternative form for string-based logging (like
console.log) too, and address some of the problems with console.log?

Core thesis is that profiling, tracing, etc. are all the same, all track
something with a timestamp.

Can timestamp be correlated with other events? Within the same process,
`process.hrtime` also uses the same clock so can be used for correlation.

What about a shared clock across processes? No, but TRACE_EVENT has a clock
sync event we might investigate.


### JS API

Is there anything we’re risking, e.g. perf or security, by exposing to userland?

* Maybe, but it’s worse with current implementations.
* If we allow arbitrary messages in a trace API, could spend too much time
      building strings which aren’t used. Need to expose API in a way that only does
      these steps when needed.

Should we provide this API through `console`, e.g. `console.trace` or somesuch?

Need a convention for category naming in userland.

* use package names?

Do we need to define a convention for the `args` structures?

* For what? What beyond the core fields defined in [Chrome Tracing Format][]
  might be broadly needed in userland modules?

Do we need a "level"-like field as part of the core set? It would have
categories like Error, Warning, and Info and could be a primary field for filtering.

* Could use a string in the category, e.g. `pkgname:verbose`. But will
  authors use many different names, e.g. "verbose" and "info"?

[Chrome Tracing Format]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CvAClvFfyA5R-PhYUmn5OOQtYMH4h6I0nSsKchNAySU/

Consensus is that we should expose this to userland.


### Trace Points in Core

First step is to use macros throughout C++ in Node core and develop more opinions.

Specifically:

* libuv barriers, especially async_wrap
* to track event loop metrics
* current usages of debug.log

Would be ideal to be able to choose categories with a regex. To do so need to add regex parsing to current impl.


### What remains to land PR?

Provide an experimental warning if `--enable-tracing` runtime flag is specified.

@mhdawson: Can this implementation be abstracted so as not to depend on V8?

@mattloring: Work in progress to abstract this infrastructure to an independent
tracing library (libtracing).

@mhdawson: Should we wait for that then?

@ofrobots: To use that new implementation once available we'll only have to change
the build configuration.

@mattloring: The actual interface is the macros, which will not change.

Discussion to continue in GitHub
(https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/9304#discussion_r90739052)

* Wrap macros for simpler use? Not useful to add a layer in Node just for this.
* Specify log location? Could be added later.
* Programmatic API to access buffers? Could be added later.
* Is there a way to listen for events? Could be added later.
  * Does Chromium have sinks we can reuse, e.g. for ETW. There may be one in Chromium to start from.
* Check SmartOS failure.

Unless there’s objection, go ahead and land.


### **Next steps** for TracingController:

* Add an "experimental" warning if `--enable-tracing` is specified.
* Discuss if/how to abstract from V8.
* If no objections, land initial PR (#9304).
* List next tasks in Diag repo, such as instrumenting the wraps in core, adding a JS
  API, and adding a callback mode.


---

## Inspector and Protocol

Old V8 debugger to be removed: https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/9789.

But our deprecation policy is typically at least 2 majors. @ofrobots to
investigate.

What needs to be deprecated in Node as part of removal of old V8 debugger?

* `lib/_debugger.js`
* use of special debug Context, e.g. as returned by [GetDebugContext](https://github.com/v8/v8/blob/02c6b04179a632a3d7a493e60086e5f4c5f47f95/include/v8-debug.h#L251).
* other uses of [include/v8-debug.h](https://github.com/v8/v8/blob/02c6b04179a632a3d7a493e60086e5f4c5f47f95/include/v8-debug.h)?

**Next steps**:

* In issue for removal of old debugger [node#9789](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/9789) discuss what else will be effected/deprecated.

### CLI Debugger

We’ll need to deprecate `node debug` soon since it’s based on deprecated protocol.

Should we replace `lib/_debugger.js` (the CLI debugger, used through `node
debug`) with one that implements the new protocol?

[node-inspect](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/67) by @jkrems can do
that.

Questions to answer:

* Does Node need an official CLI debugger, maintained in core?
* Should `node-inspect` be in the Foundation?
* Should it be bundled in default distribution?
* Should it be in `./deps` or `./lib`?

What are the use cases which would justify it in core? When no GUI is
available. Still, could be acquired via a package manager. What about if no
network/package manager is available?

Do other langs have built-in debuggers? Some.

**Consensus** that node-inspect should be in the Foundation.

Continue discussion on bundling in Core on GitHub.

**Next steps**:

* Open a specific issue for deprecating existing CLI debugger
  (`lib/_debugger.js`, `node debug`).
* Open an issue in the TSC repo to bring node-inspect into the Foundation.
* Continue discussion on whether and how a CLI debugger should be bundled.

### Activate inspector in running process

[node#8464](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/8464)

Final suggested options are:

1. Activate both inspector and debugger and turn one off based on initial message.
2. Don’t do anything and switch default to activate inspector in 8.0.

Consensus is option 2 and to switch the default for SIGUSR1 **now** in master only to
activate inspector. This would land in 8.x releases.

**Next steps**:

* Reply in existing issue that we plan to completely switch in v8.x.
* Notify client debugger projects.
* Message to community.

### **Next steps** for Inspector and Protocol

* In issue for removal of old debugger [node#9789](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/9789) discuss what else will be effected/deprecated.
* Open a specific issue for deprecating existing CLI debugger (`lib/_debugger.js`, `node debug`).
* Open an issue in the TSC repo to bring node-inspect into the Foundation.
* Continue discussion on whether and how a CLI debugger should be bundled in default distribition.
* Reply in [node#8464](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/8464) that we plan to completely switch to inspector in v8.x.
* Notify client debugger projects about switch of SIGUSR1.
* Message changes to community.


---

## async_hooks & context propagation

* PR: https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/8531
* Node-EP: https://github.com/nodejs/node-eps/pull/18

How can we help the ecosystem with this problem of tracking context across async
boundaries?

Domains and Zones were attempts.

Could we add a context variable whenever a function is registered? Problem is
that it's not clear what context the programmer would intend to capture.

async_hooks only works with Node’s native object hierarchy (\*Wraps). What about
callbacks handled outside of Node’s hierarchy or in userland? E.g. Bluebird.

Userland queueing of callbacks breaks the async tracking mechanisms we’ve tried,
cause many callbacks come from a single source.

async_hooks originally had this problem, trying to address by adding a userland
API - "Embedder API." This will allow module owners to fire their own hooks.

Embedder API doesn’t help modules which are entirely in JS.

Do we have a native (C++) API for async_hooks? Not at the moment, but could be added.

**Next steps**:

* Review Embedder API added to async_hooks and start explaining to ecosystem.

