# Node.js Diagnostics WG Meeting

- Date: 2016-07-13
- YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BtZ6aFrD8gQ

## Attendees

- Josh Gavant (@joshgav)
- Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
- Thomas Watson (@watson)
- Andreas Madsen (@andreasmadsen)
- Matt Loring (@matthewloring)
- Ali Sheikh (@ofrobots)
- Raymond Kang (@misterpoe)
- Cristian Cavalli (@cristiancavalli)
- Daniel Khan (@danielkhan)
- Trevor Norris (@trevnorris)

## Agenda

- AsyncWrap - [[nodejs/node-eps#18](https://github.com/nodejs/node-eps/pull/18)]
- Trace Controller [[nodejs/diagnostics#53](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/53)]
- Inspector Protocol [[nodejs/node#7393](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/7393)]
- APM Summit [[nodejs/diagnostics#58](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/58)

## Minutes

## AsyncWrap

- [[nodejs/node-eps#18](https://github.com/nodejs/node-eps/pull/18)]
- [[nodejs/diagnostics#29](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/29)]

@trevnorris: Do not have ability to instrument promises and it doesn’t look promising.

Follow [[nodejs/diagnostics#29](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/29)], create separate issues for specific items.

**Questions**:

- Do we need to deprecate `AsyncWrap::MakeCallback`? @trevnorris: eventually.
- What about the duplication of `node::MakeCallback` and `AsyncWrap::MakeCallback`? @trevnorris: There will be less duplication but some is still needed.
- User modules cannot currently be instrumented by AsyncWrap.
- How will AsyncWrap be integrated in NaN's callback wrapper?
- How will AsyncWrap be implemented in the in-progress ABI-stable API?

**Next steps**:

- One significant change remains to enable multiple listeners.
- @trevnorris is working on a JS wrapper module for AsyncWrap to make it more usable for end users.


## Tracing Controller

- [[nodejs/diagnostics#53](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/53)]

Some components will live in V8, some in Node. PR with V8 component: <https://codereview.chromium.org/2137013006/>

Will provide interface for configuring trace collection and serialization format. Will also provide aggregation and filtering capabilities.

Prototyped a Node-specific subclass of V8 component and able to get V8 traces. Added some trace points in `fs` to test.

@joshgav: Will there be an interface for user modules (native or JS) to read and write traces?

@ofrobots: Goal is to get basics in, then it’s up to Node.js to decide if/how to expose to users.

@mattloring: Currently based on C++ macros and included directly in code.

**Q**: What information is provided in a trace?

**A**: CPU, TID, PID, timestamp. Follow-on work planned to allow alternate arguments. Also, some TRACE_EVENT macros accept additional metadata.

**Q**: Where is output written to?

**A**: Will provide a `TraceWriter` interface which users can derive from and write to file, stream, whatever.

**Timeline**: V8 v5.4.

**Next steps**:

- Matt and Ali continue working on V8/Chromium implementation.
- Add trace points throughout Node core codebase.
- Define and implement interfaces for JS and native modules to read from and write to trace system.


## Inspector

[[nodejs/node#7393](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/7393)]

@joshgav: Intent is to enable other engines to use same debugging protocol as V8 without having to implement V8's diagnostic APIs.

Also need to update CLI debugger.

Check `v8_inspector` tag in nodejs/node for needed contributions.


## APM Summit

[[nodejs/diagnostics#58](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/58)]


@watson: At NodeConf Adventure discussed how APM providers are solving the same problem over and over again. Idea is a shared service in a module or part of core.

Agenda would be:

- Application-level traces especially for HTTP, DB requests (I/O). Currently requires ugly monkey-patching. AsyncWrap addresses some needs but not all. Key need is to keep a context across async boundaries.

- Problem with ES modules because they can’t be monkey-patched.

@joshgav: Can application-level traces be provided through the Tracing Controller?

@ofrobots: TRACE_EVENT could be a source of information, but true need is to track async context.

@watson: Can Trace Controller be used in production?

@ofrobots: Yes, it’s designed for investigating perf issues, but it depends on number of events.

@ofrobots: Think of Tracing Controller as “structural profiling” as opposed to "sampling profiling."

Right now no user modules have been instrumented with TRACE_EVENT anyway. But eventually modules could be instrumented with same.

@watson: Provide a standard API/format for tracing so all module authors could instrument their own code.

@andreasmadsen: In what way does AsyncWrap not address this problem?

@watson: example is postgres module, which maintains a pool of callbacks. Callbacks retain context in which pool was originally created [so AsyncWrap fails].

@ofrobots: AsyncWrap helps with Node core, but the notion of a logical context doesn’t exist in JS.

Zones proposal was also an attempt to solve this problem.

**Next steps**:

- Many won’t be at Node Summit, we’ll postpone to a later conference. @watson will create a Doodle.


## Next Meeting

- Early September.
