# Node.js Foundation Diagnostics Working Group Meeting 2017-11-29

--------------------------------------

## Attendees

@mike-kaufman
@hashseed
@AndreasMadsen
@komawar
@mhdawson
@ofrobots
@kjin
@jkrems
Thomas Watson

## Links

* **Minutes Google Doc**: 
  - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QCV-w86zINGyAZQ5l1fZ8VCjRkFHuyBYD9Unij458kk/edit#

* **Previous Minutes**: 
  - [md doc](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/blob/master/wg-meetings/2017-11-15.md)
  - [google doc]( https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cqw00x3kWLYp7jmu6f6D4qmqiPpSwGdJaa3fQ4GHx0U/edit?usp=sharing)

## Agenda
  - **Meeting Recordings**
      - Instructions to set up youtube publishing were painful to setup, so we haven't been doing recordings
      - @mhdawson says some simpler instructions exist
      - **Actions:**
          - [ ] @mhdawson to send around link to simpler instructions 
  - **Time zone shift:**
      - @mhdawson has a conflict at 12:00 PM PST slot, so we should move meetings back to 1PM PST (Will move from UTC 20:00 to UTC 21:00)
      - **Actions:**
        - [x] @mike-kaufman to update times for existing meetings

  - **Async-context formalization and diagnostics support**  [#107](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/107)
     - There is interest in others seeing progress on this, in particular @kjin, @ofrobots, @hashseed and @mhdawson. 
     - @mrkmarron, @mike-kaufman have some progress.
     - @jkrems mentioned it would be good to capture code snippets that are interesting examples for async context
     - @mike-kaufman want to list such examples out & have them as `//todos` in the document.  They provide good opportunity
       for others to contribute as well as make sure that model in the doc is understandable by others.    
    - **ACTIONS**:
      - [ ] @mike-kaufman - figure out how to grant access to early draft of md
      - [ ] @mrkmarron, @mike-kaufman - get draft polished up enough to make public & make a PR to diagnostics GH repro

  - **Trace Events** tracking issue #84
     - @ofrobots, @kjin are ramping up on the space
     - Haven't updated trackign issue
     - Stand-alone library factored out of chrome hasn't been done yet.
     - There's an issue currently in how to keep the trace macros in sync.
         - One copy lives under `deps/v8/`
         - another copy under `src/` that is effectively a copy of above w/ a few slight mods
         - currently, this update needs to happen w/ each rev of v8
         - it's annoying 

  - **Integrate C++ AsyncHooks Embedder API with native abstraction** [#13254](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/13254)
    - Done for Napi
    - Not done for NaN
    - How do we move this forward?
      - @andreasMadsen would like to sync w/ NaN people & talk to them about the details
      - open ? on who the right people are w/ deep enough understanding of NaN
      - @AndreasMadsen hasn't gotten a lot of traction with ppl he's contacted
    - Question is how high of a priority is this?
      - Issue in that anyone using a NaN native module & AsyncHooks is at risk of losing context
        - e.g., users of native redis module
      - @jkrems - how many modules use NaN APIs now? 
      - @ofrobots - issue of correctness, that is, w/out having NaN updated, AsyncHooks is effectively unreliable & can't be counted on
    - **ACTIONS:**  
      - [x] @mike-kaufman - add trackign issue for NaN support to AsyncHooks tracking issue if not already present. *issue already present*. 

  - **[async_hooks] stable API - tracking issue** [#124](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/124)
    - How do we get this across finish line?
    - Trevor no longer involved, Anna has enough context to help out
    - Issues exist now where we have context, but it is wrong context
    - We do have some users: groupon, new relic, Google's stack drvier
    - Need to get feedback on quality level of async hooks from users, ideally users at scale who have broad insight into how well it is working
    - in particular, are people having to monkey-patch around async-hooks losing context?
    - **ACTIONS:**
      - [x] @mike-kaufman - open issue to request feedback from current users, /cc active maintainers. *opened https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/129* 

  - **Diagnostics WG Summit** [#121](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/121)
    - looks like 2/12 & 2/13 are the dates
    - Should confirm end of week (12/1)
    - **ACTIONS:**
      - [ ] @mhdawson - propose detailed schedule

  - **Perf/Node.js** [#168](https://github.com/nodejs/benchmarking/issues/168)
    - perf need to be updated to understand interpreter
    - @hashseed will progress on V8 side to see if this is possible
    - lastest info https://github.com/nodejs/benchmarking/issues/168#issuecomment-348434328

  - **Meta data for llnode - Node.js version 8** [#50](https://github.com/nodejs/post-mortem/issues/50)
    - @mike-kaufman had to leave for this part & missed discussion here.
    - no notes in google doc
    - someone please fill in details here
