# Node.js  Diagnostics WorkGroup Meeting 2020-05-06

## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L2PuJ9WTxcU
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/385
* **Minutes Google Doc**: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yZv7Hg3S-c8Y-m4_9ZAXw5BJaf1cKDmSWn14my2aS0k/edit

## Present

* Diagnostics team: @nodejs/diagnostics
* Stephen Belanger @qard
* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Matheus Marchini (@mmarchini)
* Chengzhong Wu (@legendecas)
* Peter Marton (@hekike)
* Gireesh Punathil (@gireeshpunathil)
* Harshitha KP(@harshithakp)
* Robin Röper (@robin-rpr)
* Anton Whalley (@No9)
* Gerhard Stöbich (@flarna)

## Agenda

## Announcements
 
* Extracted from **diag-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.
  * No announcements this week.

### nodejs/node

* async_hooks: fast-path for PromiseHooks in JS [#32891](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/32891)
  * Basically finished
  * Have enough approvals to land, just wanted to share on the meeting first
  * Benchmarks: added an extra category to test the fast path. Without the destroy hooks it’s about 45?(%) improvement
  * Should land on 14, but not on 10 or 12
  * Michael: should we make it explicit in the docs that there’s overhead?
  * Stephen: if we don’t mention numbers
  * Gerhard: domains are implemented with async hooks, and use the destroy hooks, so the performance hit manifests
  * Stephen: the performance would be the same as before
  * Gerhard: If at least one user is using the destroy hooks, all async hooks will be affected
  * Stephen: Agreed
  * Michael: Any other things that might add overhead?
  * Stephen: request-heavy applications might see more overhead, but not different than before

### nodejs/diagnostics

* COVID-19 and WG sittings [#370](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/370)
  * Gireesh: is fine for now. Are we alternating every week between meeting and deep dive?
  * Michael: I think so
  * Matheus: if it’s working we can continue, otherwise we can re-evaluate

* reportVersion semantics are not defined [#349](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/349)
  * Matheus: will comment about using schema instead of versioning
  * Gireesh: the current discussion was around when to bump the version (semantic vs syntatic changes). Schemas are a middleground
  * Matheus: there’s also the backport problem
  * Action items:
    * [ ] @mmarchini will comment on the issue suggesting schema instead of versioning

* Proposal to drive Diagnostics WG initiatives through user journeys [#295](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/295)
  * We’re meeting every other week to deep dive
  * Doesn’t need to be in the agenda anymore
  * It’s possible that some items are on the user journeys doc but are not being added to the repository. Do we track that? What is the next step?
  * Peter: I hope we get it to the website
  * G: The user journey doc or the documentation
  * P: The documentation. The user journey doc is for the WG
  * G: The UJ -> documentation translation is loosely defined today
  * P: I’m open to suggestion.
  * G: There are some newcomers in the WG. They shouldn’t get the impression that tasks are implicitly assigned, items are up for grabs
  * P: Good point. Maybe we should document the process for the UJ and documentation
  * Action items:
    * [ ] Peter and Gireesh will try to come up with a documented process for the UJ

* Node CPU Profiling Roadmap [#148](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/148)
  * Matheus: item was added to discuss collaboration with V8. No progress yet

* \[async_hooks\] stable API - tracking issue [#124](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/124)
  * Thenables fix: [nodejs/node#33189](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/33189)
    * Stephen: I’ve been working on thenables issue. There’s this issue where
      async_hooks will have zero ID within thenables. AsyncLocalStorage is
      especially affected. There’s a proposed fix, currently applies only to
      AsyncLocalStorage. Trying to get a more lower level solution which works
      with async_hooks as well. Current overhead is unclear. Another option is
      to fix it on V8, which should be faster than the more complicated fix.
      The problem is PromiseHooks attach to Promise class, not Promise-like
      classes. There’s pushback because some folks believe AsyncResource is
      enough, but relying on AsyncResource pushes the context propagation to
      userland.
    * Gerhard: if V8 does it correctly it “just works”
    * Stephen: tried to go to the V8 team before in the last collab summit, but they didn’t have time to invest on it
    * Matheus: Maybe trying to get help designing the solution?
    * Stephen: Tried to reach out to several folks, it’s a hard issue without an easy fix
    * Gerhard: agreed with avoiding pushing the responsibility of context sharing to userland
  * AsyncLocalStorage stability:
    * Gerhard: Vladmir suggested moving async local storage outside of async hooks to make it stable
    * Stephen: Agreed with async local storage stable. Async hooks might never become stable.
    * Maybe it doesn’t have to be on a separate module to become stable

* Reviving "Zones" like proposals to TC39 [#375](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/375)
  * Will discus in the next meeting

* Discuss usage and support of eBPF #386
  * Anton: get alignment on strategy as well as making USDT probes available by default on official releases
  * Presentation
    * BPF: VM in the Kernel (almost WASM for Kernel)
    * It started as a packet filter technology, has been expanded to respond to other events as well as many other features
    * Allows writing programs that will safely embed to the kernel
    * _slides with architecture_
    * Languates (C, etc) can be compiled to BPF and loaded onto the kernel, attaching to an event
    * For Node.js the interesting bits are USDT defined for HTTP and GC
    * BPF generates data on kernel space, stores to BPF map, which is available on user space as well
    * Common ways to use it: BCC and bpftrace
  * Michael: why it’s not enabled yet? Do the binaries don’t work on older versions?
  * Anton: only users attaching to probes should have problems on older kernels
  * [Discussion went on, missed in the notes]
  * Action items:
    * [ ] @mmarchini will push forward the unofficial build with USDT enabled
    * [ ] WG will walk through the user journeys to understand where these tooling fits best

## Q&A, Other

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.



