# Node.js  Diagnostics WorkGroup Meeting 2021-02-24

## Links

* **Recording**: https://youtu.be/x6racZBptck
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/466

## Present

* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Stephen Belanger (@qard)
* Gerhard Stöbich (@flarna)
* Chengzhong Wu (@legendecas)
* Rafael Gonzaga (@rafaelgss) - 30min late
* Bradley Farias

## Agenda

## Announcements

*Extracted from **diag-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/node

* async_hooks: use new v8::Context PromiseHook API [#36394](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/36394)
  * Was working on it before Christmas, have joined Datadog on Monday and will start working
    on it again. Addressed some nits. Close to landing.
  * Working on redoing Node.js PR, few changes needed. Need to redo V8 patch commit.

### nodejs/diagnostics

* Seeking consensus: Move node-inspect into core? [#459](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/459)
  * Seems like Diagnostics WG is good with it, closing.

* Identify async_hooks use cases beyond AsyncLocalStorage [#437](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/437)
  * Next steps seems like blog post to get broader input.
    * Qard to write first draft, PR into https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/blog-posts directory
    * When ready Michael will connect with Rachel from Foundation to get published

* Gerhard - anybody looking at ESM/Diagnostics
  * Bradley - ESM team did look at it and wrote example (would have to change)
    * Did not work as APMs today, can use policy or loader. Loader hooks are very
      unstable, lots of pushback when tried to update.
    * If need more hooks, could add
    * Just does not work like current APMs, must wrap full module
  * Gerhard - must use transform hook, only single hook available
  * Bradley tried to get consensus on having multiple ..
  * Stephen, this issue is one of the primary issues of the Diagnostic channel work
    * Sidestep issue of monkey patch, instead have module provide info
    * Gerhard, need to convince world to use it
  * Bradley, would there be a better hook if you need to change the behaviour
    * Can’t pass a function reference around
  * Gerhard if has good idea of how to fix, would have posted already
  * Bradley, took a few suggestions to TC39 (Dynamic modules records) that allowed
    to loosen some of the constraints, the committee does not want them to be loosed as that
    make things a lot more complicated, want early error instead.
  * In browsers already have problem, works ok if there is one APM, but problems once there
    are 2.
  * Stephen, has been discussion in DataDog, and what led to some of the work on Diagnostic
    Channel, but still at same point of not sure of how to solve in a good way.
  * Stephen, part of challenge is things being marked experimental
  * Bradley, key take away, write up how people can use Diagnostic channel instead of monkey
    Patching.
  * Stephen, need people to spend more time looking at how/what is needed.

### nodejs/node-inspect

* update: add blackbox by default [#99](https://github.com/nodejs/node-inspect/pull/99)
  * Discussed issue with Mary, don’t have reason why it does not work for internal use
  * After 15x, can use prefix but not others. Not sure if that is a bug, waiting for feedback from
    V8 team.
  * Rafael will update

## Q&A, Other

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.
