# Node.js  Diagnostics WorkGroup Meeting 2022-03-22

## Links

* **Recording**:  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fCNRhe01puo
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/533

## Present

* Stephen Belanger (@qard)
* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Rafel Gonzaga (@rafaelgss)
* Chenzhong Wu (@legendecas)
* Tony Gorez (@tony-go)
* Gireesh Punathil (@gireeshpunathil)

## Agenda

## Announcements

*Extracted from **diag-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/node

* chore(doc): add `trace_gc` to diagnostic tooling support document [#42346](https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/42346)
  gireesh: premises for the support tool tiering: stability, testing, doc
  michael: documentation is not necessarily a key premise. Also, doc might not be in node.js core doc
  tony: usability is well understood
  This will be the WG's view for deciding tool's inclusion in the list:
   - usability (capability) test strength, available doc
  after-the-fact: the PR is approved and landed.


### nodejs/diagnostics

* re-assess the tooling list and their maturity status [#532](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/532)

  gireesh: re-assessing helps the tool to position correctly in the list
  rafael: some tools not yet classified, worth revisiting this
  how do we do it: create issues - one per tool, tag for agenda inclusion, pick up in each meeting, make assessments, document inferences and actions
  rafael driving actions

* Move Slack channel to OpenJS Foundation server [#527](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/527)
  This is complete, the channel is moved to openjs server

* meeting time, again [#507](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/507)
  single meeting not viable due to lack of a common time for all the members
  two slots: 3.30 PM and 10.30 PM are the best ones that covers everyone and has maximum votes
  one meeting in each slot in a month. collaborate through issues, if there are items that needs to be discussed and decided with the wider group
  gireesh will drive the slot 1 meeting (3.30 PM)
  stephen will drive the slot 2 meeting (10.30 PM)


* Identify async_hooks use cases beyond AsyncLocalStorage [#437](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/437)
  stephen: nothing new this week. not active off late, remove from regular agenda
  action: remove from agenda, and revisit when appropriate

## Q&A, Other

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Project Calendar**: <https://nodejs.org/calendar>

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.
