# Node.js Foundation Diagnostics Best Practices Guide Content Definition Meeting 2019-01-16

## Links

* **Recording**:
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/270

## Present

* Gireesh Punathil (@gireeshpunathil)
* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Matheus Marchini (@mmarchini)
* Ruben Bridgewater (@BridgeAR)

## Agenda

## Announcements

* No announcements this week.

*Extracted from **diag-best-practices-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/diagnostics

* Diagnostics Best Practices Guide content definition meeting [#254](https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/254)

* Baseline issue to discuss “Best practices” - https://github.com/nodejs/diagnostics/issues/211
  * First question is how we structure the Best parctices guide?
    * Michael, first thought is we’d structure around issue type. (ex: symptom)
    * Matheus, start with symptom then narrow down to deployment scenarios. (same as Michael)
    * Gireesh, one issue is that there may be a lot of deployment variations so hard to
      start there. On the other hand production deployments will still need the steps to get
      there.
    * Michael, starting with symptom provides common basis that can be used to build base content.
      Additional level of production level deployment can be built on top of it.
    * Gireesh, starting with symptom we can also re-use existing documentation more easily.
    * After we are in discussion we seem to be in agreement with structuring around symptoms
      and then having a second layer with additional guidance for specific deployment
      environments.

* Next question is how to prioritize the content.
  * Based on frequency of reporting, or based on tooling availability, etc.
  * Gireesh, most common issues are memory leak and exceptions, hang is the least reported.
  * Gireesh we should start with memory leak, crash and performance based on the symptom.
  * Michael, Matheus, Ruben, sounds reasonable.

* Gireesh, referring to the issue related to the level of support for tooling, how do we
  position the tools in the best practices?
  * Michael, work from the perspective of best tools, then work on the improving support
    for the tools that are important.
  * Gireesh if there are multiple tools, do we refer to all? Have multiple flows etc.?
  * Matheus, we should probably mention more than one tools. Likely also layered so
    you start with something simple and then progress to more sophisticated tools.
  * Michael, for equivalent tools I don’t see a problem mentioning both.

* Gireesh as we go through the process, we’ll likely come across existing tools and
  shortcomings.

* Last issue is how do we get started, who will take up what?
  * Michael, first thing we need is a table of contents.

* Which format should we use for the content?
  * Markdown, same as core documentation and blog posts (for example: https://github.com/nodejs/nodejs.org/pull/1961/files)
  * Start with pull requests to nodejs/diagnostics

## Q&A, Other

* No Q&A this week.

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.
